Sara Portillo: I had never once in my life looked up the word disabled to see what I'd find. She says it's not just about the words, it's what we believe about people when we name them with these words. "Our language affects our thinking and how we view the world and how you view other people," she says. "By casually doing something as simple as naming a person a child, we might be putting lids and casting shadows on their power" Dr P told Amy she was 'such a strong, powerful little girl' as a five-year-old. He reshaped an awful daily occurrence into a new and promising experience for her. The possibility of an individual to see themselves as capable is capable. Technology is revealing more clearly to us now what has always been a truth: That everyone has something rare and powerful to offer our society. To adapt is our greatest asset- A human ability to adapt. Adversity isn't an obstacle that we need to get around in order to resume living our life. The only real and consistent disability I've had to confront is the world ever thinking that I could be described by those definitions. In our desire to protect those we care about by giving them the cold hard truth about their medical prognosis or indeed prognoses on the expected quality of their life. We have to make sure that we don't put the first brick in a wall. That will disable someone. And perhaps if we see adversity as natural, consistent and useful, we're less burdened by the presence of it. We can reimagine adversity as something more than just tough times. Maybe we can see it as change. Adversity is just changed that we haven't adapted ourselves to. Amy Mullins was born without the Cable of Bones and had feet turned in and a few toes in this foot and few toes on that. The man who delivered her was a complete stranger to her parents. He said to Mullins: I had to give this prognosis to your parents: that you would never walk, and you would have the mobility that other kids have or any life of independence. Mullins has been exposed to more people who have opened doors for her than those who have put lids and cash shadows on her. If you can hand somebody the key to their own power, the human spirit is receptive. Open a door for someone at a crucial moment, you are educating them in the best sense. A spirit that's been crushed doesn't have hope, It doesn't see beauty, It no longer has our natural childlike curiosity and our innate ability to imagine. If, instead, we can bolster a human spirit to keep hope, to see beauty in themselves and others, to be curious and imaginative, then we are truly using our power.