Anthropology is the idea that the world in which we live in does not exist in some absolute sense, but it's just one model of reality. When each of you in this room were born, there were 6,000 languages spoken on the planet. Of those languages, as we sit here today in Monterey, fully half are no longer being whispered into the ears of children. And I know there's some who say: Wouldn't it be better, if all just spoke one language? Virus is not a black magic cult. On the contrary, it's a complex metaphysical worldview. VDU is simply the distillation of these very profound religious ideas that came over during the tragic diaspora of the slavery era. The spirits can be invoked from beneath the great water, responding to the rhythm of the dance, to momentarily displace the soul of the living. We dance in the temple and become God. And because you are possessed, you are taken by the Spirit. How can you be harmed? CNN's John Exterior travels to the Amazon to meet indigenous people. He takes Ayahuasca, the most powerful psychoactive preparation of the shaman's repertoire. Defter: Indigenous people have forged a traditional mystique of the earth that is based not on an idea of being self-consciously close to it, but on a far subtler intuition: The idea that the earth itself can only exist because it is breathing the bean by human consciousness. He also meets the Yanomamö, a tribe who believe that the forest is a boat of a spirit that will direct his or her destiny. The 20th century is not going to be remembered for its wars or its technological innovations. It will be remembered as the era in which we stood by and either actively endorsed or passively accepted the massive destruction of both biological and cultural diversity on the planet. It's not change or technology that threatens the integrity of the atmosphere. Furthermore, it is power, the crude face of domination. These are dynamic, living peoples being driven out of existence by identifiable forces that are beyond their capacity to adapt to. And you cannot understand the pain of Tibet until you move through it at the ground level. National Geographic editor-in-chief: Do we want a monochromatic world of monotony, or do we want to embrace a polychromatic one of diversity? John Sutter: It's humbling to remember that our species has perhaps been around for six. Millennia. He says we don't have all the answers for all the challenges that will confront us in the ensuing millennia. National Geographic: We think that polemics are not persuasive, but we believe that storytelling can change the world. "We're going to take our audience to places of such cultural wonder that they cannot help but come away dazzled by what they have seen," says the magazine's editor.