Amy Mullins says she never looked up the word disabled to see what she'd find. She says she was born into a world that perceived someone-me- to have nothing positive going for them. Her childhood doctor at the A.I. duPont Institute in Wilmington, Delaware, opened doors for her, she says. "I have to wonder to what extent his vision and his declaration of me as a strong and powerful little girl shaped my own view of myself as an inherently strong, powerful and athletic person," she writes. The human ability to adapt is our greatest asset. Adversity isn't an obstacle that we need to get around in order to resume living our life. The only real and consistent disability I've had to confront is the world ever thinking that I could be described by those definitions. We have to make sure that we don't put the first brick in a wall. That will disable someone. By not treating the wholeness of a person, by not acknowledging their potency, we are creating another ill on top of whatever natural struggle they might have. Amy Mullins was born without the fibula bones and had feet turned in and a few toes in this foot and few toes on that. Anthropologists tell us that the one thing we, as humans, have always required of our community members is to be of use. If we can change this paradigm from one of achieving normalcy to one of possibility or potency, to be even a little bit more dangerous, we can release the power of many more children and invite them to engage their rare and valuable abilities with the community. The only true disability is a crushed spirit. A spirit that's been crushed doesn't have hope, It doesn't see beauty, It no longer fosters natural childlike curiosity and our innate ability to imagine. If, instead, we can bolster a human spirit to keep hope, to see beauty in themselves and others, to be curious and imaginative, then we are truly using our power. When a spirit has those qualities, we are able to create new realities and new ways of being. I'd to leave you with a poem by a 14th century Persian poet named Hafiz.