The world has 6.8 billion people and is headed up to about 9.3 billion. We put out a lot of carbon dioxide every year-over 26 billion tons. For each American, it's about 20 tons. It's less than one ton to an average-about five tons for everyone on the planet. We have to make changes that will bring that down to zero. We've got to go from rapidly rising to falling and falling all the way to 0. That's back from a high school algebra. We probably could cut back and use less every year, but every year that will more than double the average. We have something that's not going up through various inventions and new ways of doing lighting. Almost every way we make electricity today, except for the emerging renewables in nuclear, puts out CO2, and we're going to have to do it. We need solutions, either one or several, that have unbelievable scale and unbelievable reliability. And although there are many directions or people seeking, I really only see five that can achieve the big numbers. I've left out tied geothermal fusion biofuels. Those may make some contribution And if they can do better than I expect, much the better. Renewable energy sources don't require fuel, but they have some disadvantages. The density of energy gathers in these technologies is dramatically less than a power plant. We need a breakthrough here, something that's going to be a factor of 100 better than the approaches we have now. The idea of a tarot power is that instead of burning the part of uranium-the 1% which is the U235, we decided let's burn the 99%, the U238. It's not impossible, but it's not a very easy thing. We should go through these efficiency measures to start getting reductions. The less we emit, the less that sum will be of CO2, and therefore the less the temperature. The other great is: are we deploying this zero-emission technology? Have we deployed it in all the develop countries? And we're in the process of getting it elsewhere. That's a key element of making that report card. To get to that 80%, the developed countries, including countries, China, will have had to switch their electricity generation all together. We have 20 years to invent and then 20 year to deploy. And tarot power, if things go, which is wishing for a lot, could easily meet that. There are fortunately now dozens of companies-we need to be hundreds-who, likewise, if their science goes, can compete for this, and it's best if multiple succeed, because then you could use a mix of these things. The main problem you have here it's AIDS, that you make the mistake now, and you pay for it a lot later. That has to do with a gain later and a somewhat uncertain painting. Lomborg: All of us here could pay five times as much for our energy and not change our lifestyle. The disaster is for that 2 billion. Now is: why isn't the R&D getting more discussed?