Writers have a reputation for being enormously mentally unstable, he says. He asks: Is it rational that anybody should be expected to be afraid of the work that they feel they were put on this earth to do? 'I'm afraid of all those things, And I always have been, and I am afraid of many, many more things besides that people can't even guess at,' he writes. 'And it's exceedingly likely that anything I write from this point forward is going to be judged by the world after the freakish success of my last book' The writer says he has to create a safe distance between himself and his work. He has been looking across time for models for how to do that. Ancient Greece and Ancient Rome believed that creativity came from a divine attendant spirit. The Romans had the same idea, but they called that disembodied creative spirit a genius, which is great because the Romans did not think that a genius was a particularly clever individual. They believed that Genius was the magical divine entity who was believed to literally live in the walls of an artist studio. Bob Dylan talks about the capriciousness of the creative process. He says the best example of how to deal with it is the musician Tom Watt. Dylan: "I'm not the pipeline, I'm a mule and the way that I have to work is that I get up at the same time every day and sweat and labor and barrel through it really awkwardly" "Even I, in my mulishness, even I have brushed up against that thing at times, And I would imagine that a lot of you have to" Leonard Cohen: I fell into one of those pits of despair that we all fall into when we're working on something, and it's not coming, and you start to think this is going to be a disaster. But then I remembered Tom talking to the open air and I tried it. And his whole work process changed after that, Not the work. The work was still oftentimes as dark as ever, But the process and the heavy anxiety around it was released when he took the genie out of him. Don't be afraid, Don't be daunted, Just do your job. If the divine cock-eyed genius assigned to your case decides to let some wonderment be glimpsed for just one moment through your efforts, then Olay. I believe this, and I feel we must teach it.