We spend three billion hours a week playing online games. I believe that if we want to survive the next century on this planet, we need to increase that total dramatically. I've calculated the total we need at 21 billion hours of gameplay every week. This is what I call to 'm not good at life face, And this is me making it, Can it? Yes, good, This me making the I'm Not Good at Life face. That's what I wanted to study when I was a graduate student. How we can take those feelings from games and apply them to real-world life. The average young person today in a country with a strong gamer culture will have spent 10,000 hours playing online games by the age of 21. By spending all this time playing games, we're changing what we are capable of as human beings. We're evolving to be more collaborative, to be a more collaborative and hardy species. The game industry is developing consoles that are low energy and that work with the wireless networks instead of broadband. Bring us up to 1.5 billion gamers in the next decade. Gamers always believe that an epic win is possible and that it's always worth trying and trying. The average World of Warcraft gamer plays for 22 hours a week- a half-time job. They get better feedback and feel more rewarded in games than they do in real live. We have to start making the real-world work more a game. I take my inspiration from something that happened 2,500 years ago. These are ancient dice made out of sheep's knuckles. Right before we had awesome game controllers, We had sheep knuckles- And these represent the first game equipment designed by human beings. The Institute for the Future uses games to help people solve real-world problems. Games like World Without Oil and Super Stocked at the Future aim to give people the means to create epic wins in their own futures. We're using Games to get away from everything that's broken in the real environment, Everything that's not satisfying about real life, And we're getting what we need from games. We've been playing Warcraft since 1994, that was the first real-time strategy game from the World of Warcraft series. That was 16 years ago. I say we are ready for our own Epic game Now. 8,000 people play that game for eight weeks. That came up with 500 insanely creative solutions. The last game we're launching is a game done with the World Bank Institute. If you complete the game, you will be certified as a social innovator Class of 2010. Working with universities all over Sub-Saharan Africa, and we are inviting them to learn social innovation skills. To play games at matter to survive on this planet for another century, I say: let the world changing games begin.