The word happiness is just not a useful word anymore because we apply to too many different things. We can't think about any circumstance that effects will be without distorting its importance. There are two very different entities: the experiencing self and the remembering self, and getting confused between them is part of the mess about the notion of happiness. Our experiences is a story, from our experiences are a story. We don't only tell stories when we set out to tell stories. Our memory tells our stories. That is what we get to keep from. For us, we have the remembering self and the experiencing self, and they're really quite distinct. The biggest difference between them is in the handling of time. Time is the critical variable that distinguishes a remembering self from our experiencing. We don't choose between experiences, We choose between memories of experience. We think about future as anticipated memories, And you can look at this as a tyranny of the remembering Self. There seems to be a discrepancy- I may be a bit in extreme in how little appetite I have for memories. There are really two concepts of happiness that we can apply, one per cell, And you can ask how happy is the. Experiencing self? And then you would ask how Happy are the moments in the experiencing Self's life? And they're all. Very different notions. Anyone who doesn't distinguish those notions is going to mess up the study of happiness, and I belong to a crowd of students of -being who've been messing up the studies of happiness for a long time. If you want to maximize the happiness of the two selves, you are going to end up doing very different things. The more money you are, the more satisfied you are. That does not hold for emotions. Money does not buy you experiential happiness, but lack of money certainly buys you misery. How to enhance happiness goes very different ways depending on how you think and whether you think of the remembering self or you think about the experiencing self. This is going to influence policy in years to come. In the United States, efforts are being made to measure the experience happiness of the population.