The way to maximize freedom is to maximize choice. The more choice people have, the more freedom they have. We can construct six and a half million different stereo systems out of the components that are on offer in one store. The same explosion of choice is true Healthcare. It is no longer the case that you go to the doctor and the doctor tells you what to do. We don't inherit an identity, we get to invent it. The slide to this slide is meant to indicate that our identity is now a matter of choice. Every day when you wake up in the morning, you have to decide what person you want to be. We are blessed, as Carl was pointing out, with the technology that enables us to work Every minute of every day from any place on the planet except the Randolph hotel. With many options to choose from, people find it very difficult to choose at all. And it makes the world look this: Paralysis is a consequence of having too many choices: You really want to get the right decision right if it's for all eternity. When there are lots of alternatives to consider, it is easy to imagine that you could have made a different choice that would have been better. Dan Gilbert made a big point this morning of talking about how much the way in which we value things depends on what we compare them to. The more options there are, the easier it is to regret anything at all that is disappointing about the option that you chose. And the more attractive features of these options are going to be reflected by us as opportunity costs. The best you can ever hope for is that the stuff that is as good as you expect it to be. The secret to happiness-this is what you all came for. The secrets to happiness is low expectations. Clinical depression has exploded in the industrial world in the last generation. What enables all of this choice in industrial societies is material affluence. Income redistribution will make everyone better off, not just poor people, because of how all this excess choice plays us. If some of what enables people to make all the choices we make, we're shifted to societies in which people have too few options. This is what economists call a Pareto Improving Move.