Sara is disabled, but she doesn't know it. She looked up the word disabled to see what it meant in the 1980s. She found a list of words that included "wounded, maimed, wounded, mangled," she says. "Adversity isn't an obstacle that we need to get around in order to resume living our life. It's part of our life and I tend to think of it my shadow. Sometimes I see a lot of it, Sometimes there's very little, but it's always with me" This year we celebrate the 200th birthday of Charles Darwin. Darwin illustrated a truth about the human character. It's not the strongest of the species that survives, nor is it the most intelligent. It is the one that is most adaptable to change. No prognosis can account for how powerful this could be as a determinant in the quality of someone's life. Dr Keane made that shift in thinking. He understood that there's a difference between the medical condition and what someone might do with it. If you can hand somebody the key to their own power, the human spirit is receptive. Hafiz is a 14th century Persian poet named Hafiz. His poem is called The God Who Only Knows Four Words. It is about a God who only knows four words and keeps repeating them saying: come dance with me.
The world has 6.8 billion people. That's headed up to about 9.3 billion. If we do a really great job on new vaccines, healthcare services, we could lower the price of energy by about 10% or 15%. We've got to go from rapidly rising to falling and falling all the way to 0. Poverty means providing these services to almost everyone on the planet. We probably could cut back and use less. But every year this number on average is going to go out. That will more than double the services delivered per person. We need energy miracles. Renewable energy sources have some disadvantages, such as the density of energy gather. Nuclear energy also has three big problems, including cost, safety and waste. Storage of energy is a big problem, and we need a breakthrough. What we need is hundreds of companies working on these five paths. The world needs to cut its CO2 emissions by 80% by 2050. To get to that 80%, developed countries will have to switch their electricity generation all together. We need to go from more research funding to more innovation. If you gave me only one wish for the next 50 years, I can pick whose president. We do need the market incentives: CO2 tax, cap and trade, something that gets that price signal out there. We need to have this dialogue be a more rational, more understandable dialogue, including the steps that the government takes. This is an important wish, but it is one we can achieve. The tough thing is building the pilot reactor. Minerals have a million times as much energy as coal. Geoengineering techniques could delay the heating to bias 20 or 30 years to get our act together. U.S. should spend $10 billion more on R&D than it is right now.
"It seems natural. Later that day I was driving around this property with Miguel and I asked him. I said for a place. It seems natural," she said. "I don't think there's a better place in the world"
CNN's John Sutter talks about his love affair with a new type of fish. The fish was raised to the highest standards of sustainability, he says. Sutter says he fell out of love with the fish because it tasted like chicken. He says he wants to see more sustainable fish on menus. In 1982, a Spanish company with an environmental conscience purchased the land. They reversed the flow of water. They created a 27,000 acre fish farm-Bass, mullet, shrimp, eel, Any. In the process, Miguel and this company completely reversed the ecological destruction. The author visited a fish farm in southern Spain that is also a bird sanctuary and a water purification plant. He asked the farm's owner if the flamingos were there because the food was better. He said the pink of the belly, the better the system, and the water was clean. Agribusiness has simply asked if for feeding more people more cheaply, how terrible could that be? That's been the motivation. It has been the business plan of American agriculture. We should call it what it is: a business in liquidation, A business that's quickly eroding ecological capital.
There are several cognitive traps that make it almost impossible to think straight about happiness. The first of these traps is a reluctance to admit complexity. The second trap is a confusion between experience and memory. And the third is it's the focusing illusion. There's just no way of getting it right. In a life there are about 600 million of them, and in a month there, about 600 thousand. Most of the moments of our life are said to be about three seconds long. The biggest difference between them is in the handling of time. We don't choose between memories of experiences and memories of experience. "Why do we put much weight on memory relative to the weight that we put on experiences?" "Happiness is not about how happy a person lives. It is about how satisfied or pleased a person is, when that person thinks about her life" "We have begun to learn about the happiness of the two selves" Happiness is mainly being satisfied with people, that we're spending time with people. If you want to maximize the happiness of the two selves, you are going to end up doing very different things. The most interesting result that we found in the Gallup survey is a number which we absolutely did not expect to find.
The placebo effect is when something fake is believed in enough by somebody that it becomes something real. In other words, sugar pills have a measurable effect in certain kinds of studies. This is a trick that's been in every child's magic book since at least the 1950s. If you have capsules, they're more effective than tablets in any form. A colored capsule that's yellow on one end and red on the other is better than a white capsule. It's only your belief that makes it real in your body and makes a stronger effect. "I'm just going to leave it there and walk off the stage. I will be seeing you several times over the next few days," he says. "I hope you're looking forward to that. Thank you very much," he adds.
The whole of the data in which we consume is greater than the sum of the parts. Pivot is a tool that allows you to use information to that patterns pop, and we can see trends that would otherwise be invisible. We're navigating the web for the first time as if it's a web, not from page to page. Zoomable technology brings that zoomable technology to every single web page. This I can step back, pop right back into a specific section. By virtue of just viewing web pages in this way, I can look at it in my entire browsing history.
"I was a real science geek, but it was all about trying to understand the world, understand the limits of possibility" "My love of science fiction seemed to be mirrored in the world around me" "I've learned that deep ocean environment and even the shallow oceans are rich with amazing life" In the mid-90s he started a company with Stan Winston-my good friend Stan Winston, who was the premier makeup and creature designer at that time- and it was called Digital Domain. The company would leapfrog, pass the analog processes of optical printers and on, and we would go right to digital production. But we found ourselves lagging in the creature and character design stuff that we had founded the company to do. "I was completely smitten by this and had to do more, and I made a curious decision. I said, OK, I'm going to park my day job as a Hollywood moviemaker, and Iam going to go be a full-time explorer" The film was made for a very limited audience, no fame, no glory, no money. What are you doing? You're doing it for the task itself, For the challenge- and the ocean is the most challenging environment there is. The respect of your team is more important than all the laurels in the world.
We spend three billion hours a week playing online games. If we want to survive the next century on this planet, we need to increase that total dramatically. I've calculated the total we need at 21 billion hours of gameplay every week. I believe that we need a spire to play games online for at least twenty-one billion hours by the end of the next decade. The average young person in a country with a strong gamer culture will have spent 10,000 hours playing online games by the age of 21. By spending all this time playing games, we're changing what we are capable of as human beings. 500 million people who are perfect at something. In the next decade we're going to have another billion gamers. The average World of Warcraft gamer plays for 22 hours a week- a half-time job. Gamers love to be attached to awe-inspiring missions. Roots is a video game company based in Palo Alto, California. The company was founded in 2000 by ex-CEOs of Google and Facebook. Roots is part of the Institute for the Future, which aims to change the way we think about the future. This is world without oil. We made this game in 2007. This is an online game in which you try to survive an oil shortage. The oil shortage is fictional, but we put enough online content out there for you to believe that it's real and to live your real life as if we run out of oil.
This is the greatest time there's ever been on the planet, by any measure that you wish to choose. There's never been a time this. Despite all our accomplishments, a billion people go to bed hungry in this world every day. A kid born in New Delhi today can expect to live as long as the richest man in the world did 100 years ago. The New Yorker's John Sutter says he's been disturbed by anti-vaccine sentiment. Sutter: "We're now in an epidemic of fear, one that I've never seen and hope never to see again" He says the U.S. is one of few countries in the world where the vaccine rate for measles is going down. Bob Greene says vaccines are essential. You take them away, disease comes back-horrible diseases, and that's happening. We have measles in this country now, and it's getting worse, and pretty soon kids are going to die again, because it's just a numbers game, Greene says. Every grain of rice, every sprig of parsley, every brussels sprout has been modified by man. We object to genetically engineered food. Why do we do that? The things I constantly hear are too many chemicals, pesticides, hormones, monoculture. We do not want giant fields of the same thing. This is about keeping people alive, And it's about time we started to understand what that meant. It's selfish, it's ugly, It's beneath us, and we really have to stop it. I know that we can and as far as I'm concerned. That's something the world needs right now.
Nathaniel Anthony Ayers dropped out of Julliard after suffering a complete breakdown. 30 years later he was living homeless on the streets of Skid Row in downtown Los Angeles. Ayers'' manic rage was transformed into understanding, into understanding and acquired curiosity. "For Nathaniel, music is sanity, Because music allows him to take his thoughts and delusions and shape them through his imagination and his creativity into reality, And that is an escape from his tormented state," she says. "I will always make music with Nathaniel, whether we're at Walt Disney concert hall or on Skid Row, because he reminds me why I became a musician"
The Arctic Ice cap is, in a sense, of the beating heart of the global climate system. It expands in winter and contracts in summer. In the last five years, we've added 70 million tons of CO2 every 24 hours to the oceans. This, all over the country, is the second-largest waste stream in America. One of the coal industries adds: around Christmas was this one. This is the source of much of coal in West Virginia. The Alliance for Climate Protection has launched two campaigns.
"The Official Dogma of all Western industrial societies is that the way to maximize the welfare of our citizens is to maximize individual freedom" "The more choice people have, choice people. Have, the more freedom they have, and the more free they have, The more welfare they have" Every day when you wake up in the morning, you have to decide what person you want to be with respect to marriage and family. We are blessed with the technology that enables us to work Every minute of every day from any place on the planet except the Randolph hotel. With many options to choose from, people find it very difficult to choose at all. The way in which we value things depends on what we compare them to. The more options there are, the easier it is to regret anything that is disappointing about the option that you chose. Opportunity costs subtract from the satisfaction we get out of what we choose, even when what we chose is terrific. The secret to happiness-this is what you all came for. The secrets to happiness is low expectations. Clinical depression has exploded in the industrial world in the last generation. People have experiences that are disappointing because their standards are high, and then, when they have too high, they think they're at fault. If some of what enables people in our societies to make all the choices we make, we're shifted to societies in which people have too few options. Not only would those people's lives be improved, but ours would be improved also. This is what economists call a Pareto Improving Move.
Microsoft's new technology, See dragon, lets you interact with vast amounts of visual data. See dragon is a project called Photosynth which marries two different technologies. We hope that this means no more pop-ups and other rubbish that should be necessary. Microsoft has created a map of the world based on flicker images. The map was created by combining images from a variety of cameras. The aim is to create a cross-model and cross-user social and cross user social experience. The project is based on Stephen Lawler's virtual Earth work.
The LHC is the largest scientific experiment ever attempted: 27 kilometers in circumference. Its job is to recreate the conditions that were present less than a billionth of a second after the universe began. On the 10th of September last year we turned the machine on for the first time.
We've been digitizing biology, and now we're trying to go from that digital code into a new phase of biology with designing and synthesizing life. This is the map of a small organism, Mycoplasma genitalium- that has the smallest genome for a species that can self-replicate in the laboratory. Scientists have created a way to make large genetic code pieces that can be put together automatically. This is the largest molecule ever made by humans of a defined structure. We can use the genetic code to write out words, sentences, thoughts. We are trying to get to the point of automation. Scientists have created a database with about 20 million genes and I to think of these as the design components of the future. We have the ability now to build a large robot that can make a million chromosomes a day. We use over five billion tons of coal, 30 billion plus barrels of oil. Furthermore, we think that we might be able to increase what the basic question is of what is life. Furthermore, we're a ways away from improving people. Our goal is just to make sure that we have a chance to survive long enough to maybe do that.
Liftable are an interactive computer the size of a cookie. They're able to be moved around by hand. They can sense each other, they can sense their motion. Furthermore, they have a screen and a, and they have a wireless radio. Most importantly, they're physical: the blocks. A music sequencing and live performance tool that we've built recently in which giftables act as sounds, lead, bass and drums. You get to choose which one you want to use, and you can inject these sounds into a sequence that you can assemble into the pattern that you want.
"I am my writer. Writing books is my profession, but it's more than that, of course. It is also my great lifelong love and fascination, And I don't expect that's ever going to change" "Everywhere I go now, people treat me: I'm doomed, Seriously doomed, doomed. And I'm not at all comfortable at all with that assumption" The author has been looking across time for models for how to help creative people manage the inherent emotional risks of creativity. His search has led him to Ancient Greece and Ancient Rome. Back then, people believed that creativity was this divine attendant spirit that came to human beings from some distant and unknowable source. The creative process can sometimes feel downright paranormal, he says. The pressure of that has been killing off our artists for the last 500 years, he argues. He says we can't erase 500 years of rational humanistic thought in one 18-minute speech. Leonard Cohen: "For most of his life he was pretty much the embodiment of the tormented contemporary modern artist" Cohen: One day he was driving on the freeway in Los Angeles, and he heard this little fragment of melody that comes into his head as inspiration often comes, elusive and tantalizing. Cohen: He just stopped that whole mental process, and he did something completely novel. The Moors invaded southern Spain, they took this custom with them and the pronunciation changed over the centuries from Allah, Allah to ole. If the divine cock-eyed genius assigned to your case decides to let some wonderment be glimpsed for just one moment through your efforts, then Olay. And if not, do you dance anyhow.
The world in which we live in does not exist in some absolute sense, but it's just one model of reality. We all share the same adaptive imperatives. But what's interesting is the unique cadence of the song, the rhythm of the dance in every culture. Every two weeks, an elder dies and carries with him into the gray of the last syllables of an ancient tongue. The people of the Northwest Amazon believe that mythologically they came up the milk river from the east and the belly of sacred snakes. They have a curious language and marriage rule which is called linguistic exogamy. The Yogi of the Sierra Nevada de Santa Marta in Northern Columbia. The descendants of the ancient Tyrone of Civilization which once carpeted the Caribbean coastal plain of Columbia. These people alone were never conquered by the Spanish. To this day they remained ruled by a ritual priesthood, but their training for the priesthood is rather extraordinary. Ayahuasca is the most powerful psychoactive preparation of the shaman's repertoire. It's made really of two different sources. On the one hand, this woody Liana has in it a series of beta carbolizes harming harmaline mildly hallucinogenic. But it's mixed with a leaf of a shrub in the coffee family called psychotic Verdi. In Tibet, where I'm doing a lot of research recently, you'll see its accrued face of political domination. The pain of Tibet can be impossible to bear, but the redemptive spirit of the people is something to behold. Do we want of monotony or do we want to embrace a polychromatic world of diversity? Margaret Meade, the great anthropologist, said before she died that her greatest fear was that we drifted toward this blandly amorphous generic world view. The Canadian government has not always been kind to the Inuit people. In the 1950s, to establish her sovereignty, we forced them into settlements. This old man's grandfather refused to go. The family, fearful for his life, took away all of his weapons, all his tools. But he simply slipped outside, pulled down his seal skin trousers and defecated into his hand.
