The world in which we live in does not exist in some absolute sense, but it's just one model of reality. We all share the same adaptive imperatives. But what's interesting is the unique cadence of the song, the rhythm of the dance in every culture. Every two weeks, an elder dies and carries with him into the gray of the last syllables of an ancient tongue. The people of the Northwest Amazon believe that mythologically they came up the milk river from the east and the belly of sacred snakes. They have a curious language and marriage rule which is called linguistic exogamy. The Yogi of the Sierra Nevada de Santa Marta in Northern Columbia. The descendants of the ancient Tyrone of Civilization which once carpeted the Caribbean coastal plain of Columbia. These people alone were never conquered by the Spanish. To this day they remained ruled by a ritual priesthood, but their training for the priesthood is rather extraordinary. Ayahuasca is the most powerful psychoactive preparation of the shaman's repertoire. It's made really of two different sources. On the one hand, this woody Liana has in it a series of beta carbolizes harming harmaline mildly hallucinogenic. But it's mixed with a leaf of a shrub in the coffee family called psychotic Verdi. In Tibet, where I'm doing a lot of research recently, you'll see its accrued face of political domination. The pain of Tibet can be impossible to bear, but the redemptive spirit of the people is something to behold. Do we want of monotony or do we want to embrace a polychromatic world of diversity? Margaret Meade, the great anthropologist, said before she died that her greatest fear was that we drifted toward this blandly amorphous generic world view. The Canadian government has not always been kind to the Inuit people. In the 1950s, to establish her sovereignty, we forced them into settlements. This old man's grandfather refused to go. The family, fearful for his life, took away all of his weapons, all his tools. But he simply slipped outside, pulled down his seal skin trousers and defecated into his hand.