Split: validation
Speaker ID: Al_Gore
Duration: 4.85 minutes
Processing method: 30-second chunks with 2-second overlap

Original text:
 last year i showed these two slides so that demonstrate that the arctic ice cap which for most of the last three million years has been the size of the lower forty eight states has shrunk by forty percent but this understates the seriousness of this particular problem because it doesn't show the thickness of the ice the arctic ice cap is in a sense the beating heart of the global climate system it expands in winter and contracts in summer the next slide i show you will be a rapid fast forward of what's happened over the last twenty five years the permanent ice is marked in red and as you see it expands to the dark blue that's the annual ice in winter and it contracts in summer and the so called permanent ice five years old or older you can see is almost like blood spilling out of the body here in twenty five years it's gone from this to this this is a problem because the warming heats up the frozen ground around the arctic ocean where there is a massive amount of frozen carbon which when it thaws is turned into methane by microbes compared to the total amount of global warming pollution in the atmosphere that amount could double if we cross this tipping point already in some shallow lakes in alaska methane is actively bubbling up out of the water professor katey walter from the university of alaska went out with another team to another shallow lake last winter she's okay the question is whether we will be and one reason is this enormous heat sink heats up greenland from the north this is an annual melting river but the volumes are much larger than ever this is the kangerlussuaq river in southwest greenland if you want to know how sea level rises from land base ice melting this is where it reaches the sea these flows are increasing very rapidly at the other end of the planet antarctica the largest mass of ice on the planet last month scientists reported the entire continent is now in negative ice balance and west antarctica cropped up on top some under sea islands is particularly rapid in its melting that's equal to twenty feet of sea level as is greenland in the himalayas the third largest mass of ice at the top you see new lakes which a few years ago were glaciers forty percent of all the people in the world get half of their drinking water from that melting flow in the andes this glacier is the source of drinking water for this city the flows have increased but when they go away so does much of the drinking water in california there has been a forty percent decline in the sierra snowpack this is hitting the reservoirs and the predictions as you've read are serious this drying around the world has lead to a dramatic increase in fires and the disasters around the world have been increasing at an absolutely extraordinary and unprecedented rate four times as many in the last thirty years as in the previous seventy five this is a completely unsustainable pattern if you look at in the context of history you can see what this is doing in the last five years we've added seventy million tons of co two every twenty four hours twenty five million tons every day to the oceans look carefully at the area of the eastern pacific from the americas extending westward and on either side of the indian subcontinent where there is a radical depletion of oxygen in the oceans the biggest single cause of global warming along with deforestation which is twenty percent of it is the burning of fossil fuels oil is a problem and coal is the most serious problem the united states is one of the two largest emitters along with china and the proposal has been to build a lot more coal plants but we're beginning to see a sea change here are the ones that have been cancelled in the last few years with some green alternatives proposed however there is a political battle in our country and the coal industries and the oil industries spent a quarter of a billion dollars in the last calendar year promoting clean coal which is an oxymoron that image reminded me of something around christmas in my home in tennessee a billion gallons of coal sludge was spilled you probably saw it on the news this all over the country is the second largest waste stream in america this happened around christmas one of the coal industry's ads around christmas was this one this is the source of much of the coal in west virginia the largest mountaintop miner is the head of massey coal so the alliance for climate protection has launched two campaigns this is one of them part of one of them finally the positive alternative meshes with our economic challenge and our national security challenge this is the last one there is an old african proverb that says if you want to go quickly go alone if you want to go far go together we need to go far quickly thank you very much

Whisper transcription:
Last year, I showed these two slides that demonstrate that the Arctic ice cap, which for most of the last 3 million years has been the size of the lower 48 states, has shrunk by 40%. But this understates the seriousness of this particular problem because it doesn't show the thickness of the ice. The Arctic Ice cap is in a sense of the beating heart of the global climate system. It expands in winter and contracts in summer. The next slide I show you will be a rapid, fast forward of what's happened over the fast forward of what's happened over the last 25 years. The permanent ice is marked in red. And as you see, it expands to the dark blue. That's the annual ice and winter and it contracts in summer. And the so-called permanent ice, five years older or older, you can see it's almost like blood spilling out of the body here. In 25 years it's gone from this to this. This is a problem because the warming heats up the frozen ground around the Arctic Ocean where there is a map where there is a massive amount of frozen carbon, which when it thaws is turned into methane by microbes. Compared to the total amount of global warming pollution in the atmosphere, that amount could double if we cross this tipping point. Already in some shallow lakes in Alaska, methane is actively bubbling up out of the water. Professor Katie Walter from the University of Alaska went out with another team to another shallow lake last winter. whether we will be, and one reason is this enormous heat sink heats up Greenland from the north. This is an annual melting river, but the volumes are much larger than ever, this is the kangaroo-lucic river in southwest Greenland. If you want to know how sea level rises from land-based ice melting this is where it reaches the sea. These flows are increasing very rapidly. At the other end of the planet, Antarctica, the largest mass of ice on the planet. Last month, scientists reported the entire continent is now reported the entire continent is now a negative ice balance and West Antarctica propped up on tops of undersea islands is particularly rapid in its melting that's equal to 20 feet of sea level as is greenland in the Himalayas the third largest massive ice at the top you see new lakes which a few years ago were glaciers 40% of all the people in the world get half of their drinking water from that melting flow in the andes this glacier is the source of drinking water for this city the flows have increased The flows have increased, but when they go away, so does much of the drinking water. In California, there's been a 40% decline in the Sierra snow pack. This is hitting the reservoirs and the predictions as you've read are serious. This drying around the world has led to a dramatic increase in fires. And the disasters around the World have been increasing at an absolutely extraordinary and unprecedented rate. Four times as many in the last 30 years as in the previous 75. 75. This is a completely unsustainable pattern. If you look at it in the context of history, you can see what this is doing. In the last five years, we've added 70 million tons of CO2 every 24 hours. 25 million tons every day to the oceans. Look carefully at the area of the Eastern Pacific from the Americas extending westward and on either side of the Indian subcontinent where there is a the Indian subcontinent, where there is a radical depletion of oxygen in the oceans. The biggest single cause of global warming, along with deforestation, which is 20% of it, is the burning of fossil fuels. Oil is a problem, and coal is the most serious problem. The United States is one of the two largest emitters along with China, and the proposal has been to build a lot more coal plants. But we're beginning to see a sea change. Here are the ones that have been canceled in the last few years, with some green alternatives proposed. There is a political battle in our country. And the coal industry and the oil industry spent a quarter of a billion dollars in the last calendar year promoting clean coal, which is an oxymoron. That image reminded me of something. Around Christmas in my home in Tennessee, a billion gallons of coal sludge was spilled. You probably saw it on the news. This all over the country is the second largest waste stream in America. This happened around in America. This happened around Christmas. One of the coal industries adds around Christmas was this one. This is the source of much of coal in West Virginia. The largest a mountaintop miner is the head of Massey Coal. So the Alliance for Climate Protection has launched two campaigns. This one of them, part of one, of them. Finally, the positive alternative meshes with our economic challenge and our national security challenge, this is the last one. There's an old African proverb that says, African proverb that says, if you want to go quickly, go alone. If you wanna go far, go together. We need to go far quickly. Thank you very much.
