Split: validation
Speaker ID: Barry_Schwartz
Duration: 18.41 minutes
Processing method: 30-second chunks with 2-second overlap

Original text:
 i'm going to talk to you about some stuff that's in this book of mine that i hope will resonate with other things you've already heard and i'll try to make some connections myself in case you miss them i want to start with what i call the official dogma the official dogma of what the official dogma of all western industrial societies and the official dogma runs like this if we are interested in maximizing the welfare of our citizens the way to do that is to maximize individual freedom the reason for this is both that freedom is in and of itself good valuable worthwhile essential to being human and because if people have freedom then each of us can act on our own to do the things that will maximize our welfare and no one has to decide on our behalf the way to maximize freedom is to maximize choice the more choice people have the more freedom they have and the more freedom they have the more welfare they have this i think is so deeply embedded in the water supply that it wouldn't occur to anyone to question it and it's also deeply embedded in our lives i'll give you some examples of what modern progress has made possible for us this is my supermarket not such a big one i want to say just a word about salad dressing a hundred and seventy five salad dressings in my supermarket if you don't count the ten extra virgin olive oils and twelve balsamic vinegars you could buy to make a very large number of your own salad dressings in the off chance that none of the hundred seventy five the store has on offer suit you so this is what the supermarket is like and then you go to the consumer electronics store to set up a stereo system speakers cd player tape player tuner amplifier and in this one single consumer electronics store there are that many stereo systems we can construct six and a half million different stereo systems out of the components that are on offer in one store you've got to admit that's a lot of choice in other domains the world of communications there was a time when i was a boy when you could get any kind of telephone service you wanted as long as it came from ma bell you rented your phone you didn't buy it one consequence of that by the way is that the phone never broke and those days are gone we now have an almost unlimited variety of phones especially in the world of cell phones these are cell phones of the future my favorite is the middle one the mp three player nose hair trimmer and creme brulee torch and if if by some chance you haven't seen that in your store yet you can rest assured that one day soon you will and what this does is it leads people to walk into their stores asking this question and do you know what the answer to this question now is the answer is no it is not possible to buy a cell phone that doesn't do too much so in other aspects of life that are much more significant than buying things the same explosion of choice is true health care it is no longer the case in the united states that you go to the doctor and the doctor tells you what to do instead you go to the doctor and the doctor tells you well we could do a or we could do b a has these benefits and these risks b has these benefits and these risks what do you want to do and you say doc what should i do and the doc says a has these benefits and risks and b has these benefits and risks what do you want to do and you say if you were me doc what would you do and the doc says but i'm not you and the result is we call it patient autonomy which makes it sound like a good thing but what it really is is a shifting of the burden and the responsibility for decision making from somebody who knows something namely the doctor to somebody who knows nothing and is almost certainly sick and thus not in the best shape to be making decisions namely the patient there's enormous marketing of prescription drugs to people like you and me which if you think about it makes no sense at all since we can't buy them why do they market to us if we can't buy them the answer is that they expect us to call our doctors the next morning and ask our prescriptions to be changed something as dramatic as our identity has now become a matter of choice as this slide is meant to indicate we get to we don't inherit an identity we get to invent it and we get to re invent ourselves as often as we like and that means that every day when you wake up in the morning you have to decide what kind of person you want to be in with respect to marriage and family there was a time when the default assumption that almost everyone had is that you got married as soon as you could and then you started having kids as soon as you could the only real choice was who not when and not what you did after nowadays everything is very much up for grabs i teach wonderfully intelligent students and i assign twenty percent less work than i used to and it's not because they're less smart and it's not because they're less diligent it's because they are preoccupied asking themselves should i get married or not should i get married now should i get married later should i have kids first or a career first all of these are consuming questions and they're going to answer these questions whether or not it means not doing all the work i assign and not getting a good grade in my courses and indeed they should these are important questions to answer work we are blessed as carl was pointing out with the technology that enables us to work every minute of every day from any place on the planet except the randolph hotel there is one corner by the way that i'm not going to tell anybody about where you actually where the where the hi wifi works i'm not telling you about it because i want to use it so what this means this incredible freedom of choice we have with respect to work is that we have to make a decision again and again and again about whether we should or shouldn't be working we can go to watch our kid play soccer and we have our cell phone on one hip and our blackberry on our other hip and our laptop presumably on our laps and even if they're all shut off every minute that we're watching our kid mutilate a soccer game we are also asking ourselves should i answer this cell phone call should i respond to this email should i draft this letter and even if the answer to the question is no it's certainly going to make the experience of your kid's soccer game very different than it would've been so everywhere we look big things and small things material things and lifestyle things life is a matter of choice and the world we used to live in looked like this that is to say there were some choices but not everything was a matter of choice and the world we now live in looks like this and the question is is this good news or bad news and the answer is yes we all know what's good about it so i'm going to talk about what's bad about it all of this choice has two effects two negative effects on people one effect paradoxically is that it produces paralysis rather than liberation with so many options to choose from people find it very difficult to choose at all i'll give you one very dramatic example of this a study that was done of investments in voluntary retirement plans a colleague of mine got access to investment records from vanguard the gigantic mutual fund company of about a million employees and about two thousand different workplaces and what she found is that for every ten mutual funds the employer offered rate of participation went down two percent you offer fifty funds ten percent fewer employees participate than if you only offer five why because with fifty funds to choose from it's so damn hard to decide which fund to choose that you'll just put it off until tomorrow and then tomorrow and then tomorrow and tomorrow and tomorrow and of course tomorrow never comes understand that not only does this mean that people are gonna have to eat dog food when they retire because they don't have enough money put away it also means that making the decision is so hard that they pass up significant matching money from the employer by not participating they are passing up as much as five thousand dollars a year from the employer who would happily match their contribution so paralysis is a consequence of having too many choices and i think it makes the world look like this you really want to get the decision right if it's for all eternity right you don't want to pick the wrong mutual fund or even the wrong salad dressing so that's one effect the second effect is that even if we manage to overcome the paralysis and make a choice we end up less satisfied with the result of the choice than we would be if we had fewer options to choose from and there are several reasons for this one of them is that with a lot of different salad dressings to choose from if you buy one and it's not perfect and you know what salad dressing is it's easy to imagine that you could have made a different choice that would have been better and what happens is this imagined alternative induces you to regret the decision you made and this regret subtracts from the satisfaction you get out of the decision you made even if it was a good decision the more options there are the easier it is to regret anything at all that is disappointing about the option that you chose second what economists call opportunity costs dan gilbert made a big point this morning of talking about how how much the the way in which we value things depends on what we compare them to well when there are lots of alternatives to consider it is easy to imagine the attractive features of alternatives that you reject that make you less satisfied with the alternative that you've chosen here is an example for those of you who aren't new yorkers i apologize but here's what you're supposed to be thinking here's this couple on the hamptons very expensive real estate gorgeous beach beautiful day they have it all to themselves what could be better well damn it this guy is thinking it's august everybody in my manhattan neighborhood is away i could be parking right in front of my building and he spends two weeks nagged by the idea that he is missing the opportunity day after day to have a great parking space opportunity costs subtract from the satisfaction we get out of what we choose even when what we choose is terrific and the more options there are to consider the more attractive features of these options are going to be reflected by us as opportunity costs here's another example now now this cartoon makes a lot of points it makes points about living in the moment as well and probably about doing things slowly but one point it makes is that whenever you're choosing one thing you're choosing not to do other things and those other things may have lots of attractive features and it's going to make what you're doing less attractive third escalation of expectations this hit me when i went to replace my jeans i wear jeans almost all the time and there was a time when jeans came in one flavor and you bought them and they fit like crap and they were incredibly uncomfortable and if you wore them long enough and washed them enough times they started to feel feel ok so i went to replace my jeans after years and years of wearing these old ones and i said i you know i want a pair of jeans here's my size and the shopkeeper said do you want slim fit easy fit relaxed fit you want button fly or zipper fly you want stonewashed or acid washed do you want them distressed you want boot cut you want tapered blah blah blah on and on he went my jaw dropped and after i recovered i said i want the kind that used to be the only kind he had no idea what that was so i spent an hour trying on all these damn jeans and i walked out of the store truth with the best fitting jeans i had ever had i did better all this choice made it possible for me to do better but i felt worse why i wrote a whole book to try and explain this to myself the reason is the reason i felt worse is that with all of these options available my expectations about how good a pair of jeans should be went up i had very low exp i had no particular expectations when they only came in one flavor when they came in a hundred flavors damn it one of them should've been perfect and what i got was good but it wasn't perfect and so i compared what i got to what i expected and what i got was disappointing in comparison to what i expected adding options to people's lives can't help but increase the expectations people have about how good those options will be and what that's going to produce is less satisfaction with results even when they're good results nobody in the world of marketing knows this cause if they did you wouldn't all know what this was about the truth is more like this the reason that everything was better back when everything was worse is that when everything was worse it was actually possible for people to have experiences that were a pleasant surprise nowadays the world we live in we affluent industrialized citizens with perfection the expectation the best you can ever hope for is that this stuff is as good as you expect it to be you will never be pleasantly surprised because your expectations my expectations have gone through the roof the secret to happiness this is what you all came for the secret to happiness is low expectations i want to say just a little autobiographical moment that i i actually am married to a wife and and she's really quite wonderful i couldn't have done better i didn't settle but settling isn't always such a bad thing finally one consequence of buying a bad fitting pair of jeans when there is only one kind to buy is that when you are dissatisfied and you ask why who's responsible the answer is clear the world is responsible what could you do when there are hundreds of different styles of jeans available and you buy one that is disappointing and you ask why who's responsible it is equally clear that the answer to the question is you you could have done better with a thous with a hundred different kinds of jeans on display there is no excuse for failure and so when people make decisions and even though though the results of the decisions are good they feel disappointed about them they blame themselves clinical depression has exploded in the industrial world in the last generation i believe a significant not the only but a significant contributor to this explosion of depression and also suicide is that people have experiences that are disappointing because their standards are so high and then when they have to explain these experiences to themselves they think they're at fault and so the net result is that we do better and in general objectively and we feel worse so let me remind you this is the official dogma the one that we all take to be true and it's all false it is not true there's no question that some choice is better than none but it doesn't follow from that that more choice is better than some choice there's some magical amount i don't know what it is i'm pretty confident that we have long since passed the point where options improve our welfare now as a policy matter i'm almost done as a policy matter the thing to think about is this what enables all of this choice in industrial societies is material affluence there are lots of places in the world and we have heard about several of them where the their problem is not that they have too much choice their problem is that they have too little so the stuff i'm talking about is the peculiar problem of modern affluent western societies and what is so frustrating and infuriating is this steve levitt talked to you yesterday about how these expensive and difficult to install infants child seats don't help it's a waste of money what i'm telling you is that these expensive complicated choices it's not simply that they don't help they actually hurt they actually make us worse off if some of what enables people in our societies to make all of the choices we make were shifted to societies in which people have too few options not only would those people's lives be improved but ours would be improved also this is what economists call a pareto improving move income redistribution will make everyone better off not just poor people because of how all this excess choice plagues us so to conclude you're supposed to read this cartoon and being a sophisticated person say ah what does this fish know you know nothing is possible in this fishbowl impoverished imagination a myopic view of the world and that's the way i read it at first the more i thought about it however the more i came to the view that this fish knows something because the truth of the matter is that if you shatter the fishbowl so that everything is possible you don't have freedom you have paralysis if you shatter this fishbowl so that everything is possible you decrease satisfaction you increase paralysis and you decrease satisfaction everybody needs a fishbowl this one is almost certainly too limited perhaps even for the fish certainly for us but the absence of some metaphorical fishbowl is a recipe for misery and i suspect disaster thank you very much

Whisper transcription:
I'm going to talk to you about some stuff that's in this book of mine that I hope will resonate with other things that you've already heard, and I'll try to make some connections myself in case you miss them. But I want to start with what I call the official dogma. The Official Dogma of what? The Official dogma of all Western industrial societies. And the Official Dogna runs like this. If we are interested in maximizing the welfare of our citizens, the way to do that is to maximize is to maximize individual freedom. The reason for this is both that freedom is in and of itself good, valuable, worthwhile, essential to being human, and because if people have freedom, then each of us can act on our own to do the things that will maximize our welfare and no one has to decide on our behalf. The way to maximize freedom is to maximize choice. The more choice people have, choice people have, the more freedom they have, and the more free they have the more welfare they have. This, I think, is so deeply embedded in the water supply that it wouldn't occur to anyone to question it. And it's also deeply embedded into our lives. I'll give you some examples of what modern progress has made possible for us. This is my supermarket. Not such a big one. Not such a big one. I want to say just a word about salad dressing. 175 salad dressings in my supermarket. If you don't count the 10 extra virgin olive oils and 12 ball-samic vinegars, you could buy to make a very large number of your own salad dresses in the off chance that none of the 175 the store has on offer suits you. So this is what the supermarket is like. And then you go to the consumer electronics store to set up a stereo system, speakers, CD player, tape player, speakers, CD player, tape player, tuner, amplifier, and in this one, single consumer electronics store. There are that many stereo systems. We can construct six and a half million different stereo systems out of the components that are on offer in one store. You got to admit that's a lot of choice. In other domains, the world of communications, there was a time when I was a boy when you could get any kind of telephone when you could get any kind of telephone service you wanted as long as it came from Mabel. You rented your phone, you didn't buy it. One consequence of that, by the way, is that the phone never broke. And those days are gone. We now have an almost unlimited variety of phones, especially in the world of cell phones. These are cell phones of the future. My favorite is the middle one, the MP3 player, nose hair trimmer, and crembrule torch. And if, by some chance, you haven't seen that in your store, you haven't seen that in your store yet, you can rest assured that one day soon you will. And what this does is it leads people to walk into their stores asking this question. And do you know what the answer to this question now is? The answer is no. It is not possible to buy a cell phone that doesn't do too much. So, in other aspects of life that are much more significant than buying things, the same explosion of choice is true. Healthcare, it is no longer the case It is no longer the case in the United States that you go to the doctor and the doctor tells you what to do. Instead, you go into the doctor, and the Doctor tells you, well, we could do A or we can do B. A has these benefits and these risks. B has these benefit and these risk. What do you want to do? And you say, Doc, what should I do? The doc says, A has those benefits and risks, and B has the benefits of risks, what do you wanna do? You say, And you say, if you were me, Doc, what would you do? And the doc says, but I'm not you. And the result is, we call it patient autonomy, which makes it sound like a good thing. But what it really is, is a shifting of the burden and the responsibility for decision making from somebody who knows something, namely the doctor, to someone who knows nothing and is almost certainly sick and thus not in the best shape to be making decisions, namely, the patient. There's enormous marketing of prescription drugs to people of prescription drugs to people like you and me, which if you think about it makes no sense at all since we can't buy them. Why do they market to us if we can buy them? The answer is that they expect us to call our doctors the next morning and ask for our prescriptions to be changed. Something as dramatic as our identity is now become a matter of choice, as this slide is meant to indicate. We don't inherit an identity, we get to invent it, identity, we get to invent it and we re-invent ourselves as often as we like. And that means that every day when you wake up in the morning you have to decide what kind of person you want to be. With respect to marriage and family, there was a time when the default assumption that almost everyone had is that you got married as soon as you could and then you started having kids as soon you could. The only real choice was who? Not when and not what you did after and not what you did after. Nowadays, everything is very much up for grabs. I teach wonderfully intelligent students, and I assign 20% less work than I used to, and it's not because they're less smart, it's because they are preoccupied, asking themselves, should I get married or not? Should I now get married later? should I have kids first or a career first? All of these are consuming questions. consuming questions and they're gonna answer these questions whether or not it means not doing all the work I assign and not getting a good grade in my courses and then indeed they should these are important questions to answer work We are blessed as Carl was pointing out with the technology that enables us to work Every minute of every day from any place on the planet except the Randolph hotel There is one corner by the way that I'm not gonna tell anybody about where you actually wear the I'm not telling you about it because I want to use it. So what this means, this incredible freedom of choice we have with respect to work, is that we have to make a decision again and again, and again about whether we should or shouldn't be working. We can go to watch our kid play soccer, and we have our cell phone on one hip, and our blackberry on our other hip and our laptop, presumably on our laps. And even if they're all shut off, every minute that we're watching off. Every minute that we're watching our kid mutilate a soccer game, we are also asking ourselves, should I answer this cell phone call? Should I respond to this email? should I draft this letter? And even if the answer to the question is no, it's certainly going to make the experience of your kid's soccer game very different than it would have been. So everywhere we look, big things and small things, material things and lifestyle things, life is a matter of choice. And the world we used to live in And the world we used to live in looked like this, that is to say there were some choices, but not everything was a matter of choice, and the world that we now live in looks like this. And the question is, is this good news or bad news? And the answer is yes. We all know what's good about it, so I'm going to talk about what's bad about it. All of this choice has two effects, two negative effects on people. on people. One effect paradoxically is that it produces paralysis rather than liberation. With so many options to choose from, people find it very difficult to choose at all. I'll give you one very dramatic example of this, a study that was done of investments in voluntary retirement plans. A colleague of mine got access to investment records from Vanguard, the gigantic mutual fund company of about a million organic mutual fund company of about a million employees and about 2,000 different workplaces. And what she found is that for every 10 mutual funds the employer offered, rate of participation went down 2%. You offer 50 funds, 10% fewer employees participate than if you only offer five. Why? Because with 50 funds to choose from, it's so damn hard to decide which fund to choose that you'll just put it to choose that you'll just put it off till tomorrow. And then tomorrow and then tomorrow, and tomorrow and tomorrow. Of course, tomorrow never comes. Understand that not only does this mean that people are going to have to eat dog food when they retire because they don't have enough money put away, it also means that making the decision is so hard that they pass up significant matching money from the employer. By not participating, they are passing up as much as $5,000 a year for the employer who would happily match their contribution. So paralysis is a consequence of having too many choices. And I think it makes the world look like this. You really want to get the decision right if it's for all eternity, right? You don't want to pick the wrong mutual fund or even the wrong salad dress. So that's one effect. The second effect is that even if we manage to overcome the paralysis and make a choice, we end up less satisfied with the result of the choice, then we would be if we have fewer options. then we would be if we had fewer options to choose from. And there are several reasons for this. One of them is that with a lot of different salad dressings to chose from, if you buy one, and it's not perfect, and what salad dressing is, it's easy to imagine that you could have made a different choice that would have been better. And what happens is this imagined alternative induces you to regret the decision you made, and this regrets, subtracts from the satisfaction you get out of the decision that you made even if it was a good decision. the decision you made, even if it was a good decision. The more options there are, the easier it is to regret anything at all that is disappointing about the option that you chose. Second, what economists call opportunity costs. Dan Gilbert made a big point this morning of talking about how much the way in which we value things depends on what we compare them to. Well, when there are lots of alternatives to consider, it is easy to imagine. The attractive features of alternative the attractive features of alternatives that you reject that make it, you less satisfied with the alternative that you've chosen. Here's an example. For those of you who aren't New Yorkers, I apologize. But here's what you're supposed to be thinking. There's this couple on the Hamptons. Very expensive, real estate, gorgeous, beach, beautiful day. They have it all to themselves. What could be better? Well, dammit, this guy is thinking it's August. Everybody in my Manhattan neighborhood is away. is a way, I could be parking right in front of my building. And he spends two weeks nagged by the idea that he is missing the opportunity, day after day, to have a great parking space. Opportunity costs subtract from the satisfaction we get out of what we choose, even when what we chose is terrific. And the more options there are to consider, the more attractive features of these options are going to be reflected by us as opportunity costs. reflected by us as opportunity costs. Here's another example. Now, now, this cartoon makes a lot of points. It makes points about living in the moment as well, and probably about doing things slowly. But one point it makes is that whenever you're choosing one thing, choosing not to do other things, and those other things may have lots of attractive features, and it's going to make what you're doing less attractive. Third, escalation of expectations. This hit me when I went to replace my genes. I wear genes almost all the time, and there was a time almost all the time. And there was a time when jeans came in one flavor and you bought them and they fit like crap and they were incredibly uncomfortable and if you wore them long enough and washed them enough times they started to fit feel okay. So I went to replace my jeans after years and years of wearing these old ones and I said I want to pair jeans. Here's my size and the shopkeeper said do you want slim fit, easy fit, relaxed fit. You want button fly or zipper fly. You wants stone washed or acid washed. Do you want them distressed? You want boot cut, you want tapered blah blah blah on and on. blah blah blah, on and on. He went, my jaw dropped. And after I recovered, I said, I want the kind that used to be the only kind. He had no idea what that was. So I spent an hour trying on all these damned genes, and I walked out of the store, truth, with the best fitting genes I had ever had. I did better. All this choice made it possible for me to do better. But I felt worse. Why? And we're a whole book. Why? And we're a whole book to try to explain this to myself. The reason is, the reason I felt worse is that with all of these options available, my expectations about how good a pair of jeans should be went up. I had very low expectations, I had no particular expectations when they only came in one flavor, when they came in 100 flavors, damn it, one of them should have been perfect. And what I got was good, but it wasn't perfect, and so I compared what I get to what I expected, got to what I expected and what I got was disappointing in comparison to what i expected adding options to people's lives can't help but increase the expectations people have about how good those options will be and what that's going to produce is less satisfaction with with results even when they're good results nobody in the world of marketing knows this because if they did you wouldn't all know what this was about the truth is more like this The truth is, more like this, the reason that everything was better, back when everything was worse, is that when everything is worse, it was actually possible for people to have experiences that were a pleasant surprise. Nowadays, the world we live in, we affluent industrialized citizens, with perfection, the expectation, the best you can ever hope for is that stuff is as good as you expect it to be. You will never be pleasantly surprised because your expectations, my expectations, have gone through the roof. have gone through the roof. The secret to happiness, this is what you all came for. The secrets to happiness is low expectations. I want to say just a little autobiographical moment that I actually married to a wife and she's really quite wonderful. I couldn't have done better. I didn't settle. But settling isn't always such a bad thing. Finally, one consequence of buying a bad fitting pair of jeans when they The answer is clear. The world is responsible. What could you do? When there are hundreds of different styles of genes available and you buy one that is disappointing and you ask why who is responsible, it is equally clear that the answer to the question is you. You could have done better with 100 different kinds of genes on display. There is no explanation. on display, there is no excuse for failure. And so when people make decisions, and even though the results of the decisions are good, they feel disappointed about them, they blame themselves. Clinical depression has exploded in the industrial world in the last generation. I believe a significant, not the only, but a significant contributor to this explosion of depression and also suicide, is that people have experiences that are disappointing because their standards are so high, and then when they have to so high, and then when they have to explain these experiences to themselves, they think they're at fault. And so the net result is that we do better in general, objectively, and we feel worse. So let me remind you, this is the official dogma, the one that we all take to be true, and it's all false. It is not true. There's no question that some choice is better than none, but it doesn't follow But it doesn't follow from that that more choice is better than some choice. There's some magical amount. I don't know what it is. I'm pretty confident that we have long since passed the point where options improve our welfare. Now, as a policy matter, I'm almost done. As a policy manner, the thing to think about is this. What enables all of this choice in industrial societies is material affluence. There are lots of places in the world and we have heard about lots of places in the world, and we have heard about several of them, where their problem is not that they have too much choice. Their problem is that they had too little. So the stuff I'm talking about is the peculiar problem of modern, affluent, western societies. And what is so frustrating and infuriating is this. Steve Levitt talked to you yesterday about how these expensive and difficult to install child seats don't help. It's a waste of money. It's a waste of money. What I'm telling you is that these expensive, complicated choices, it's not simply that they don't help. They actually hurt. They make us worse off. If some of what enables people in our societies to make all of the choices we make, we're shifted to societies in which people have two few options. Not only would those people's lives be improved, but ours would be improved also. This is what economists call a Pareto improvement. is called a Pareto Improving Move. Income redistribution will make everyone better off, not just poor people, because of how all this excess choice plays us. So to conclude, you're supposed to read this cartoon and being a sophisticated person, say, what is this fish? No. You know, nothing is possible in this fish bowl. Impoverished imagination, a myopic view of the world, and that's the way I read it at first. The more I thought about it, however, the more I came to the view However, the more I came to the view that this fish knows something because the truth of the matter is that if you shatter the fish bowl So that everything is possible. You don't have freedom. You have paralysis If you shattered this fish bowl so that everything as possible you decrease Satisfaction you increase paralysis and you decrease satisfaction Everybody needs a fish bowl. This one is almost certainly too limited This one is almost certainly too limited, perhaps even for the fish, certainly for us. But the absence of some metaphorical fish bowl is a recipe for misery, and I suspect it's aster. Thank you very much.
