i always keep my thesaurus handy whenever i am writing anything. i realized that i had never once in my life looked up the word disabled to see what i ad find. disabled adjective: crippled, helpless, useless, wrecked, i was born into a world that perceived someone- me- to have nothing positive whatsoever going for them, when in fact today i am celebrated for the opportunities, adventures my life has procured. i find the the last two words under Many ancient societies, including the reeks, the roman, believed that to utter a curse verbally was powerful, because to say the thing out loud brought it into existence. by casually doing something as simple as naming a person a child "i hated these bands more than anything. had names for them. i was already bargaining, as a five year old child, with doctor p to try to get out of doing these exercises, unsuccessfully, of course" Our language is not allowing us to evolve into the reality that we would all want: the possibility of an individual to see themselves as capable. this is an example of how adults in positions of power can ignite the power of a child. i am going to make an admission: this phrase never sat right with me. i always felt uneasy trying to answer people is questions about it. implicit in this phrase of overcoming adversity is the idea that success or happiness is about emerging on There is an important difference, distinction between the objective medical fact of my being an amputee, the subjective, societal opinion of whether or not i am disabled. truthfully, the only real, consistent disability i eve had to confront We need to see through the pathology into the range of human capability. There is a partnership between those perceived deficiencies, our greatest creative ability. It is not about devaluing or negating these more trying times as something we want to avoid This year we celebrate the two hundredth birthday of charges drawing. it was one hundred fifty years ago when writing about evolution. that drawing illustrated, i think, a truth about the human character. it is not the strongest of the species i think the greatest adversity that we eve created for ourselves is this idea of normalcy. we can re imagine adversity as something more than just tough times. maybe we can see it as change. adversity is just change that we have not People in the community did not view these people as broken, useless. They were seen as rare, valuable. The man who delivered me was a complete stranger to my parents because i was born without the fibula bones. "I turned in a few toes in this foot, a fewtoe in that" "You eve been making liar out of me ever since" "The potential of the human will. no prognosis can account for how powerful this could If you ad asked me at fifteen years old if i would have traded prosthetics for flesh bone legs, i would not have hesitated for a second. All you really need is one person to show you the epiphany of your own power The word educate comes from the root word educe. It means to bring forth what is within, to bring out potential. educating them in the best sense is teaching them to open doors for themselves. i think that the only true disability is a crushed spirit. a spirit that is been crushed, does not have hope, it does not see beauty. if, instead, we can bolster a human spirit to keep hope, to see beauty i always keep my bizarre as handy whenever i am writing anything. i realized that i had never once in my life looked up the word disabled to see what i ad find. i was reading this list out loud to a friend at first i was born into a world that perceived someone, me, to have nothing positive whatsoever going for them, when, in fact, today i am celebrated for the opportunities adventures my life have procured. it is not just about the words Our language affects our thinking, how we view the world, how you view other people. Many ancient societies, including the reeks, the roman, believed that to utter a curse verbally was powerful, because to say the thing out "i hated these bands more than anything. i hated them had names for them. i was already bargaining as a five-year-old child with dry p, to try to get out of doing these exercises" i have to wonder today to what extent his vision, his declaration of me as a strong, powerful little girl, shaped my own view of myself as an inherently strong. this is an example of how adults in positions of power can ignite i always felt uneasy trying to answer people is questions about it. i think i am starting to figure out why. to adapt is our greatest asset: a human ability to adapt. i tend to think of it, my shadow. sometimes i see a lot of it. sometimes there is very little. it is always with me now. certainly i am not trying to diminish now. the weight of a person is struggle There is an important difference, distinction between the objective medical fact of my being an amputee, the subjective, societal opinion of whether or not i am disabled. by not treating the wholeness of a person, by not acknowledging This year we celebrate the 200th birthday of charges drawing. It was 150 years ago when writing about evolution. The drawing illustrated, i think, a truth about the human character. It is not the strongest of the species that survives, i think the greatest adversity that we eve created for ourselves is this idea of normalcy. who is normal? there is no normal, there is common. there is typical. would you want to meet that poor, beige person if  anthropologists tell us that the one thing we as humans have always required of our community members is to be of use. There is evidence that neanderthals 60,000 years ago carried their elderly, those with serious physical injury. "i arrived late for my birthday by two weeks my mother, prenatal physician, had gone on vacation. the man who delivered me was a complete stranger to my parents because i was born without the cable of bones, had feet turned in Dry keen saved newspaper clipping throughout my whole childhood, whether winning a second grade spelling bee, marching with the girl scouts, the hallowed parade, winning my college scholarship or any of my sports victories. dry keen went on to tell i aspired to that normalcy back then. i am not sure it is because of the experiences i eve had with them, not in spite of the experience i eve have with them. perhaps this shift in me has happened. in There was a case study done in 1960s brain when they were moving from grammar schools to comprehensive schools. The teachers did not know a switch had been made. i think that the only true disability is a crushed spirit. a spirit that is been crushed does not have hope, it does not see beauty. if, instead, we can bolster a human spirit to keep hope, to see beauty in