Stoke lope was walking along the streets of downtown lot angels when he heard beautiful music the source was a man an african america man charming rugged homeless playing a violin that only had two strings. i am telling a story that Nathaniel layers is prone to these schizophrenic episodes the worst of which can manifest themselves as him exploding then disappearing for days wandering the streets of skid row exposed. nathaniel refuses treatment because when he was treated it was with Nathaniel was in such a state of agitation when we started our first lesson at want dinner concert hall he had a manic glint in his eyes he was lost he was talking about invisible demons smoke how someone was poisoning him in his Music is medicine music changes us for nathaniel music is sanity because music allows him to take his thoughts delusions shape them through his imagination his creativity into reality that is an escape from his tormented state. Stroke lope was walking along the streets of downtown lot angels when he heard beautiful music. The source was a man , an african-american man , charming , rugged , homeless , playing a violin that only had two The billiard trained double bassist whose promising career was cut short by a tragic affliction with paranoid schizophrenia. Nathaniel dropped out of junkyard . He suffered a complete breakdown 30 years later he was living homeless on the streets of sk Nathaniel refuses treatment , because when he was treated , it was with shock therapy thiazine handcuffs , that scar has stayed with him for his entire life. Nathaniel was in such a state of agitation when we started our first lesson I was afraid , not for myself , i was a afraid that i was on a lose him . That he was on. a sink into one of his states that i would ruin his relationship with the violin if i started talking about scales "Music is medicine . Music changes us . For nathaniel , music is sanity . Because music allows him to take his thoughts delusions shape them through his imagination his creativity into reality . That is an escape from his tormented state" I will always make music with nathaniel , whether we are at want dinner concert hall or on skid row , because he reminds me why i became a musician. Place on him that i shamelessly stole from cellists , please