i'm going to talk today about energy and climate and that might seem a bit surprising because my full time work at the foundation is mostly about vaccines and seeds. Energy and climate are extremely important to these people in fact more important than to In the nineteen hundreds we've seen a very rapid decline in the price of electricity and that's why we have refrigerators air conditioning we can make modern materials and do so many things. But as we make it cheaper we need to meet i asked the top scientists on this several times do we really have to get down to near zero can't we just cut it in half or a quarter and the answer is that until we get near to zero the temperature will continue to rise The equation has four factors a little bit of multiplication so you've got a thing on the left co two that you want to get to zero and that's going to be based on the number of people the services each person's using on Every year this number on average is going to go up and so over all that will more than double the services delivered per person here. Getting rid of poverty means providing these services to almost everyone on the planet. Co two is the amount of co two put out per each unit of energy. Almost every way we make electricity today except for the emerging renewables and nuclear puts out co two. We need energy miracles now. CNN.com's John Defterios takes on the challenge of capturing a miracle in a tight time line. This is a case where we actually have to drive it full speed and get a miracle, he says. Defterio "We're going to have to work on each of these five and we can't give up any of them because they they look daunting because they all have significant challenges. and unbelievable reliability and although there's many directions of people Nuclear also has three big problems cost particularly in highly regulated countries is high the issue of the safety really feeling good about nothing could go wrong and then what do you do with the waste. Three very tough problems that might be solvable Energy farming is an area many square miles thousands of time more area than than you think of as a normal energy plant. These are intermittent sources the sun doesn't shine all day and likewise the wind doesn't blow all the time. We need a big breakthrough here something that's going to be a factor of a hundred better than the approaches we have now. We need lots of companies working on this hundreds in each of these five paths we need at least a hundred people The idea of terrapower is that instead of burning a part of uranium the one percent which is the u two thirty five we decided let's burn the ninety nine percent. It is kind of a crazy idea in fact people had talked 'Instead of worrying about them you just take that it's a great thing it breathes this uranium as it goes along so it's kind of like a candle' 'It is an example of the many hundreds and hundreds of ideas that Twenty percent will be used up by things going on in poor countries still some agriculture hopefully we will have cleaned up forestry cement. To get to that eighty percent the developed countries including countries like china will have had to switch their electric electricity "We need to move those at full speed and we can measure that in terms of companies pilot projects pilot projects regulatory things that have been changed" "All the way to the big reductions is only equally or maybe even slightly less important Wishing to see more research funding. Wants to see the division between the people who think short term and long term will be terrible between u s and china between poor and rich. The economics the energy density are so different than nuclear as we know it that's right today you're always refueling the reactor so you have lots of people and lots of controls that can go wrong. If you have very very cheap fuel We start off by taking the waste that exists today that's sitting in these cooling pools or dry casking by reactors that's our fuel to begin with. You're reducing the volume of the waste quite dramatically as you're going through this We have 20 years to invent and then twenty years to deploy that's sort of the deadline that the environment models environmental models have have shown us that we have to meet. There are fortunately now dozens of companies we need it to be hundreds There is a line of research on what's called geoengineering which are various techniques that would delay the heating to buy us twenty or thirty years to get our act together now. Some people say you shouldn't even work on the insuranc There's now the the geoengineering discussion about should that be in the back pocket in case things happen faster or this innovation goes a lot slower than we expect. Unfortunately the skeptics come in different camps i mean the ones who make scientific arguments iReporter says the uncertain part of ipcc is what should move us towards it. He says if it can be made economic and meet the co two constraints then skeptics will accept it. Lomborg has changed his shtick now is why isn't the r and d getting more discussed he he's still because of his earlier stuff further associated with the skeptic camp but he's realized that's that's a pretty lonely