Split: validation
Speaker ID: Brian_Cox
Duration: 3.12 minutes
Processing method: 30-second chunks with 2-second overlap

Original text:
 last year at ted i gave an introduction to the lhc and i promised to come back and give you an update on how that machine works so this is it and for those of you who weren't there the lhc is the largest scientific experiment ever attempted twenty seven kilometers in circumference its job is to recreate the conditions that were present less than a billionth of a second after the universe began up to six hundred million times a second it's nothing if not ambitious this is the machine below geneva we take the pictures of those mini big bangs inside detectors this is the one i work on it's called the atlas detector forty four meters wide twenty two meters in diameter spectacular picture here of atlas under construction so you can see the scale on the tenth of september last year we turned the machine on for the first time and this picture was taken by atlas it caused immense celebration in the control room it's a picture of the first beam particle going all the way around the lhc colliding with a piece of the lhc deliberately and showering particles into the detector in other words when we saw that picture on september tenth we knew the machine worked which is a great triumph i don't know whether this got the biggest cheer or this when someone went onto google and saw the front page was like that it means we made cultural impact as well as scientific impact about a week later we had a problem with the machine related actually to these bits of wire here these gold wires those wires carry thirteen thousand amps when the machine is working in full power now the engineers amongst you will look at them and say no they don't they're small wires they can do that because when they are very cold they are what's called superconducting wire so at minus two hundred and seventy one degrees colder than the space between the stars those wires can take that current in one of the joints between over nine thousand magnets in lhc there was a manufacturing defect so the wire heated up slightly and its thirteen thousand amps suddenly encountered electrical resistance this was the result now that's more impressive when you consider those magnets weigh over twenty tons and they moved about a foot so we damaged about fifty of the magnets we had to take them out which we did we reconditioned them all fixed them they're all on their way back underground now by the end of march the lhc will be intact again we will switch it on and we expect to take data in june or july and continue with our quest to find out what the building blocks of the universe are now of course in a way those accidents reignite the debate about the value of science and engineering at the edge it's easy to refute i think that the fact that it's so difficult the fact that we're overreaching is the value of things like the lhc i will leave the final word to an english scientist humphrey davy who i suspect when defending his protege's useless experiments his protege was michael faraday said this nothing is so dangerous to the progress of the human mind than to assume that our views of science are ultimate that there are no mysteries in nature that our triumphs are complete and that there are no new worlds to conquer

Whisper transcription:
Last year at TED, I gave an introduction to the LHC, and I promised to come back and give you an update on how that machine worked. So this is it. For those of you that weren't there, the LAHC is the largest scientific experiment ever attempted. 27 kilometers in circumference. His job is to recreate the conditions that were present less than a billionth of a second after the universe began up to 600 million times a second. So nothing, you've not ambitious. This is the machine below Geneva. We take the pictures of those mini-bid bangs in size detectors, this is the one I work on. in size detectors, this is the one I work on, it's called the Atlas detector. 44 meters wide, 22 meters in diameter, spectacular picture here of Atlas under construction, so you can see the scale. On the 10th of September last year, we turned the machine on for the first time, and this picture was taken by Atlas, it caused immense celebration in the control room. It's a picture of the first beam particle going all the way around the LHC, colliding with a piece of the LAC deliberately and showering particles into the detector. and showering particles into the detector. In other words, when we saw that picture on September 10th, we knew the machine worked, which is a great triumph. I don't know whether this got the biggest cheer or this when someone went on to Google and saw the front page was like that. It means we made cultural impact as well as scientific impact. About a week later, we had a problem with the machine related actually to these bits of wire here, these gold wires. Those wires carry 13,000 amps when the machine's working at full power. when the machines work in full power. Now, the engineers among, she will look at them and say, no, they don't. They're small wires. They can do that because when they're very cold, they're what's called superconducting wire. So at minus 271 degrees, cold in the space between the stars, those wires can take that current. In one of the joins between over 9,000 magnets in LHC, there was a manufacturing defect, so the wire heated up slightly, and it's 13,000 amps suddenly encountered electrical resistance. resistance. This was the result. Now, that's more impressive when you consider those magnets way over 20 tons and they moved about a foot. So we damaged about 50 of the magnets. We had to take them out, which we did. We've reconditioned them all, fixed them. They're all on their way back on the ground now. By the end of March, the LHC will be intact again. We will switch it on and we expect to take data in June or July. And continue with our quest to find out and continue with our quest to find out what the building blocks of the universe are. Now, of course, in a way, those accidents reignite the debate about the value of science and engineering at the edge. It's easy to refute, I think, that the fact that it's so difficult, the fact they were overreaching, is the value, of things like the LHC. I will leave the final word to an English scientist, Humphrey Davy, who I suspect when defending his proteges useless experiments. Professor Jay's useless experiments, as Professor Jay was Michael Faraday, said this, nothing is so dangerous to the progress of the human mind than to assume that our views of science are ultimate, that there are no mysteries in nature, that our triumphs are complete, and that there're no new worlds to conquer.
