Split: validation
Speaker ID: David_Merrill
Duration: 5.60 minutes
Processing method: 30-second chunks with 2-second overlap

Original text:
 i want to start out by asking you to think back to when you were a kid playing with blocks as you figured out how to reach out and grasp pick them up and move them around you were actually learning how to think and solve problems by understanding and manipulating spatial relationships spatial reasoning is deeply connected to how we understand a lot of the world around us so as a computer scientist inspired by this utility of our interactions with physical objects along with my adviser pattie and my collaborator jeevan kalanithi i started to wonder what if when we used a computer instead of having this one mouse cursor that was a like a digital fingertip moving around a flat desktop what if we could reach in with both hands and grasp information physically arranging it the way we wanted this question was so compelling that we decided to explore the answer by building siftables in a nutshell a siftable is an interactive computer the size of a cookie they're able to be moved around by hand they can sense each other they can sense their motion and they have a screen and a wireless radio most importantly they're physical so like the blocks you can move them just by reaching out and grasping and siftables are an example of a new ecosystem of tools for manipulating digital information and as these tools become more physical more aware of their motion aware of each other and aware of the nuance of how we move them we can start to explore some new and fun interaction styles so i'm going to start with some simple examples this siftable is configured to show video and if i tilt it in one direction it'll roll the video this way if i tilt it the other way it rolls it backwards and these interactive portraits are aware of each other so if i put them next to each other they get interested if they get surrounded they notice that too they might get a little flustered and they can also sense their motion and tilt so one of the interesting implications on interaction we started to realize was that we could use everyday gestures on data like pouring a color the way we might pour a liquid so in this case we've got three siftables configured to be paint buckets and i can use them to pour color into that central one where they get mixed if we overshoot we can pour a little bit back there are also some neat possibilities for education like language math and logic games where we want to give people the ability to try things quickly and view the results immediately so here i'm this is a fibonacci sequence that i'm making with a simple equation program here we have a word game that's kind of like a mash up between scrabble and boggle basically in every round you get a randomly assigned letter on each siftable and as you try to make words it checks against a dictionary then after about thirty seconds it reshuffles and you have a new set of letters and new possibilities to try thank you so these are some kids that came on a field trip to the media lab and i managed to get them to try it out and shoot a video they really loved it and one of the interesting things about this kind of application is that you don't have to give people many instructions all you have to say is make words and they know exactly what to do so here's another few people trying it out that's our youngest beta tester down there on the right turns out all he wanted to do was to stack the siftables up so to him they were just blocks now this is an interactive cartoon application and we wanted to build a learning tool for language learners and this is felix actually and he can bring new characters into the scene just by lifting the siftables off the table that have that character shown on them here he's bringing the sun out now he's brought a tractor into the scene so by shaking the siftables and putting them next to each other he can make the characters interact inventing his own narrative it's an open ended story and he gets to decide how it unfolds so the last example i have time to show you today is a music sequencing and live performance tool that we've built recently in which siftables act as sounds like lead bass and drums each of these has four different variations you get to choose which one you want to use and you can inject these sounds into a sequence that you can assemble into the pattern that you want and you inject it by just bumping up the sound siftable against a sequence siftable there are effects that you can control live like reverb and filter you attach it to a particular sound and then tilt to adjust it and then overall effects like tempo and volume that apply to the entire sequence so let's have a look we'll start by putting a lead into two sequence siftables arrange them into a series extend it add a little more lead now i put a bassline in now i'll put some percussion in and now i'll attach the filter to the drums so i can control the effect live i can speed up the whole sequence by tilting the tempo to one one way or the other and now i'll attach the filter to the bass for some more expression i can rearrange the sequence while it plays i don't have to plan it out in advance but i can improvise changing it making it longer or shorter as i go and now finally i can fade the whole sequence out using the volume siftable tilted to the left thank you so as you can see my passion is for making new human computer interfaces that are a better match to the way our brains and bodies work and today i had time to show you one point in this new design space and a few of the possibilities that we're working to bring out of the laboratory so the thought i want to leave you with is that we're on the cusp of this new generation of tools for interacting with digital media that are going to bring information into our world on our terms thank you very much i look forward to talking with all of you

Whisper transcription:
I want to start by asking you to think back to when you were a kid playing with blocks. As you figured out how to reach out and grasp, pick them up and move them around, you were actually learning how to think and solve problems by understanding and manipulating spatial relationships. Spatial reasoning is deeply connected to how we understand a lot of the world around us. So as a computer scientist, inspired by this utility of our interactions with physical objects, along with my advisor, Patty, and my collaborator, Jiven Kalanathy, I started to wonder, what I started to wonder what if when we use a computer instead of having this one mouse cursor that was like a digital fingertip moving around a flat desktop What if we could reach in with both hands and grasp information physically arranging it the way we wanted this question was so compelling that we decided to explore the answer by building siftables in a nutshell a siftable is an interactive computer the size of a cookie They're able to be moved around by hand They can sense each other they can sense their motion and they have a screen and a and they have a screen and a wireless radio. Most importantly, they're physical, so like the blocks, you can move them just by reaching out and grasping. And the siftables are an example of a new ecosystem of tools for manipulating digital information. And as these tools become more physical, more aware of their motion, aware of each other, and aware of the nuance of how we move them, we can start to explore some new and fun interaction styles. So I'm going to start with some simple examples. This siftable is configured to show video. And if I tilt it in one direction, And if I tilt it in one direction, it'll roll the video this way. If I tilt at the other way, it rolls it backwards. And these interactive portraits are aware of each other. So if I put them next to each other, they get interested. If they get surrounded, they notice that too. You might get a little flustered. And they can also sense their motion and tilt. So one of the interesting implications on interaction we started to realize was that we could use everyday gestures on data, like pouring a color on data, like pouring a color the way we might pour liquid. So in this case, we've got three siftables configured to be paint buckets, and I can use them to pour color into that central one where they get mixed. If we overshoot, we can pour a little bit back. There are also some neat possibilities for education, like language, math, and logic games, where you want to give people the ability to try things quickly and view the results immediately. So here, this is a Fibonacci sequence that I'm making with a simple equation program. program. Here we have a word game that's kind of like a mashup between Scrabble and Buggle. Basically, in every round, you get a randomly assigned letter on each siftable. And as you try to make words, it checks against the dictionary. Then after about 30 seconds, it reshuffles, and you have a new set of letters and new possibilities to try. Thank you. So these are some kids that came on a field trip to the Media Lab, and I managed to get them to try it out and shoot a video. They really loved it. And one of the interesting things about this kind of application interesting things about this kind of application is that you don't have to give people many instructions. All I have to say is make words and they know exactly what to do. So here's another few people trying it out. That's our youngest beta tester down there on the right. Turns out all he wanted to do was to stack the siftables up. So to him, they were just blocks. Now this is an interactive cartoon application and we wanted to build a learning tool for We wanted to build a learning tool for language learners. And this is Felix, actually. And he can bring new characters into the scene, just by lifting the siftles off the table that have that character shown on them. Here he's bringing the sun out. Now he's brought a tractor in to the scene. So by shaking the sifting bowls and putting them next to each other, he can make the characters interact, inventing his own narrative. It's an open-ended story, and he gets to decide how it unfolds. So the last example I have time to show you today is a music sequencing and live performance tool that we've built recently, in which siftables act as sounds like lead, bass, and drums. Each of these has four different variations. You get to choose which one you want to use, and you can inject these sounds into a sequence that you can assemble into the pattern that you want. And you inject it by just bumping up the sound siftable against the sequence siftingable. There are effects you can control live, like reverb and filter, like reverb and filter, you attach it to a particular sound and then tilt to adjust it. And then overall effects like tempo and volume that apply to the entire sequence. So let's have a look. I start by putting a lead into two sequence siftables, arrange them into a series, extend it, add a little more lead. Now I put a bass line in, now I put some percussion in. And now I'll attach the filter to the drum so I can control the effect live. and control the effect live. I can speed up the whole sequence by tilting the tempo to one way or the other, and now I'll attach the filter to the base for some more expression, I can rearrange the sequence while it plays. I don't have to plan it out in advance, but I can improvise, changing it, making it longer or shorter as I go. And now finally I can fade the sequence out using the volume siftable tilted to the left. Thank you. So, as you can see, my passion is for making new I see my passion is for making new human computer interfaces that are a better match to the ways our brains and bodies work. And today I had time to show you one point in this new design space and a few of the possibilities that we're working to bring out of the laboratory. So the thought I want to leave you with is that we are on the cusp of this new generation of tools for interacting with digital media that are going to bring information into our world on our terms. Thank you very much. I look forward to talking with all of you. Thank you.
